README.md, before:

# Notica
A Fabric mod for playing note block songs in the .nbs file format to your players.
This mod is vanilla compatible on the server-side, which means that vanilla players can join without this mod installed as well.
Players with the mod installed benefit from reduced network-usage, as well as better playback quality.

## Features
### NBS file playback
Play any song created with [Open Note Block Studio](https://opennbs.org/) on a server or in single player.
Place the .nbs files in the `config/notica/songs` directory.
Use the `/music play <song> [players]` command to play a song.

![Play a song with Notica](https://i.imgur.com/ihCc1gY.gif)

### Clientside song playback
On a vanilla client connection, each note is sent to the player with a separate packet.
This creates huge amounts of packets being sent, which causes lag and reduced playback quality.

However, if a player has the mod installed, the song notes are packed into chunks and sent in larger, but way less packets.
This process is similar to video buffering.

![Notica Server Client Architecture](https://i.imgur.com/rZMliF9.png)

### Improved playback quality
Vanilla Minecraft has some limitations that impact the playback quality of songs.
For one, notes can only be played in a certain octave range (F#3 to F#5).
For another, sounds must have an integer position in the world, which causes audio artifacts when the player is moving during playback.
Additionally, stereo panning of notes is significantly worse because note positions are clamped to the nearest integer values.

Clients with Notica installed do not have these limitations, as notes are played directly via OpenAL, the audio engine used by Minecraft: Java Edition.
Song playback will thereby sound similar to the playback within Open Note Block Studio.

### Custom instruments
Any Minecraft sound can be used as a custom instrument in .nbs files.
Notica supports all custom instrument related features of the [nbs file format specification](https://opennbs.org/nbs) (up to version 5).

### Arbitrary song tempo
Much like other server-sided nbs players, Notica is not limited to specific song tempos.
This mod makes sure that the song playback timings are accurate, by running song playbacks asynchronously.
Packets are sent without server-thread synchronization, which would limit the tempo to 20 ticks per second again.

### Song Looping
NBS format version 4 introduces loop-options like on/off, max loop count and loop start tick.
This mod supports these options and will automatically loop accordingly.

Hint: If a song loops indefinitely, you can stop it using `/music stop` in-game.

### Extended octave range
As mentioned earlier, Minecraft imposes a limit to the note pitch, limiting the octave range to F#3 until F#5.
Modded players do not have this limitation, but vanilla players are still impacted.
Notes outside the vanilla range will be transposed for vanilla players by default, so that can be played.
Vanilla clients are still able to play notes outside the vanilla range, by installing the extended notes resource pack.
The extra notes resource pack can be installed by using `/music set extended_range true` to enable the extended range playback (**vanilla players only**).

## Similar projects
- [Nota](https://github.com/PinkGoosik/nota) by PinkGoosik (Fabric, Quilt)
- [NoteBlockAPI](https://github.com/koca2000/NoteBlockAPI) by koca2000 (Bukkit and derivates)

## Developer API
### Gradle dependency
First, add Notica as gradle dependency:
```groovy
repositories {
    maven {
        url "https://repo.lclpnet.work/repository/internal"
    }
}

dependencies {
    modImplementation 'work.lclpnet.mods:notica:1.1.3+1.20.6'  // replace with your version
}
```

### Load a song
You can load a song from any `InputStream`.
If you want to load a song from a file specified by a `Path`, you can use:

```java
Path path = Path.of("path", "to", "song.nbs");
Identifier id = Identifier.of("myMod", "foo");
CheckedSong song;

try (var in = Files.newInputStream(path)) {
    song = ServerSongLoader.load(in, id);
} catch (IOException e) {
    // handle the error
    return;
}
```

The song will be loaded from the file `path/to/song.nbs` with a given identifier, that can be used to control song playback via commands.
A `CheckedSong` is a song, associated with an id and a checksum, which can be arbitrary.

### Playing a song
Song playback can be controlled via the Notica interface, which can be acquired for a given `MinecraftServer` instance:
```java
Notica api = Notica.getInstance(server);
```

You can play a song to a given set of players using:
```java
float volume = 1f;
Set<ServerPlayerEntity> listeners = Set.of(playerOne, playerTwo);

SongHandle handle = api.playSong(song, volume, listeners);
```

You can use the song handle to remove certain listeners or stop the playback altogether.

Make sure you do not hold on to SongHandles for to long, as they cannot be garbage collected if they are still referenced somewhere.
Implement some kind of cleanup, or use `SongHandle::onDestroy` to clean up your references to the instance.

### Getting song handles involving a certain player
You can get all SongHandles that the player is a listener of using:
```java
Set<SongHandle> handles = api.getPlayingSongs(player);
```

### Getting a song handle by id of a player
You can get the SongHandle with a song id that the player is listening to using:
```java
Optional<SongHandle> handle = api.getPlayingSong(player, id);
```

Please note that a player can only listen to one instance of a song identified by a certain id at once.

### Getting all song handles by id
In case multiple SongHandles were created for the same song id, you can get all using:
```java
Set<SongHandle> handles = api.getPlayingSongs(id);
```

### Getting all song handle instances
You can get all SongHandles currently playing using:
```java
Set<SongHandle> handles = api.getPlayingSongs();
```

Commit message:

add permissions for the music command

README.md, after:

# Notica
A Fabric mod for playing note block songs in the .nbs file format to your players.
This mod is vanilla compatible on the server-side, which means that vanilla players can join without this mod installed as well.
Players with the mod installed benefit from reduced network-usage, as well as better playback quality.

## Features
### NBS file playback
Play any song created with [Open Note Block Studio](https://opennbs.org/) on a server or in single player.
Place the .nbs files in the `config/notica/songs` directory.
Use the `/music play <song> [players]` command to play a song.

![Play a song with Notica](https://i.imgur.com/ihCc1gY.gif)

### Clientside song playback
On a vanilla client connection, each note is sent to the player with a separate packet.
This creates huge amounts of packets being sent, which causes lag and reduced playback quality.

However, if a player has the mod installed, the song notes are packed into chunks and sent in larger, but way less packets.
This process is similar to video buffering.

![Notica Server Client Architecture](https://i.imgur.com/rZMliF9.png)

### Improved playback quality
Vanilla Minecraft has some limitations that impact the playback quality of songs.
For one, notes can only be played in a certain octave range (F#3 to F#5).
For another, sounds must have an integer position in the world, which causes audio artifacts when the player is moving during playback.
Additionally, stereo panning of notes is significantly worse because note positions are clamped to the nearest integer values.

Clients with Notica installed do not have these limitations, as notes are played directly via OpenAL, the audio engine used by Minecraft: Java Edition.
Song playback will thereby sound similar to the playback within Open Note Block Studio.

### Custom instruments
Any Minecraft sound can be used as a custom instrument in .nbs files.
Notica supports all custom instrument related features of the [nbs file format specification](https://opennbs.org/nbs) (up to version 5).

### Arbitrary song tempo
Much like other server-sided nbs players, Notica is not limited to specific song tempos.
This mod makes sure that the song playback timings are accurate, by running song playbacks asynchronously.
Packets are sent without server-thread synchronization, which would limit the tempo to 20 ticks per second again.

### Song Looping
NBS format version 4 introduces loop-options like on/off, max loop count and loop start tick.
This mod supports these options and will automatically loop accordingly.

Hint: If a song loops indefinitely, you can stop it using `/music stop` in-game.

### Extended octave range
As mentioned earlier, Minecraft imposes a limit to the note pitch, limiting the octave range to F#3 until F#5.
Modded players do not have this limitation, but vanilla players are still impacted.
Notes outside the vanilla range will be transposed for vanilla players by default, so that can be played.
Vanilla clients are still able to play notes outside the vanilla range, by installing the extended notes resource pack.
The extra notes resource pack can be installed by using `/music set extended_range true` to enable the extended range playback (**vanilla players only**).

## Permissions
In order to play or stop music, you need to be a server operator (have OP) or you need to have the corresponding permissions:

| Action                | Required permission             |
|-----------------------|---------------------------------|
| Play music            | notica.command.music.play       |
| Play music to others  | notica.command.music.play.other |
| Stop music            | notica.command.music.stop       |
| Stop music for others | notica.command.music.stop.other |

Please note that setting the music volume and toggling extended octave range support is always possible.

## Similar projects
- [Nota](https://github.com/PinkGoosik/nota) by PinkGoosik (Fabric, Quilt)
- [NoteBlockAPI](https://github.com/koca2000/NoteBlockAPI) by koca2000 (Bukkit and derivates)

## Developer API
### Gradle dependency
First, add Notica as gradle dependency:
```groovy
repositories {
    maven {
        url "https://repo.lclpnet.work/repository/internal"
    }
}

dependencies {
    modImplementation 'work.lclpnet.mods:notica:1.1.3+1.20.6'  // replace with your version
}
```

### Load a song
You can load a song from any `InputStream`.
If you want to load a song from a file specified by a `Path`, you can use:

```java
Path path = Path.of("path", "to", "song.nbs");
Identifier id = Identifier.of("myMod", "foo");
CheckedSong song;

try (var in = Files.newInputStream(path)) {
    song = ServerSongLoader.load(in, id);
} catch (IOException e) {
    // handle the error
    return;
}
```

The song will be loaded from the file `path/to/song.nbs` with a given identifier, that can be used to control song playback via commands.
A `CheckedSong` is a song, associated with an id and a checksum, which can be arbitrary.

### Playing a song
Song playback can be controlled via the Notica interface, which can be acquired for a given `MinecraftServer` instance:
```java
Notica api = Notica.getInstance(server);
```

You can play a song to a given set of players using:
```java
float volume = 1f;
Set<ServerPlayerEntity> listeners = Set.of(playerOne, playerTwo);

SongHandle handle = api.playSong(song, volume, listeners);
```

You can use the song handle to remove certain listeners or stop the playback altogether.

Make sure you do not hold on to SongHandles for to long, as they cannot be garbage collected if they are still referenced somewhere.
Implement some kind of cleanup, or use `SongHandle::onDestroy` to clean up your references to the instance.

### Getting song handles involving a certain player
You can get all SongHandles that the player is a listener of using:
```java
Set<SongHandle> handles = api.getPlayingSongs(player);
```

### Getting a song handle by id of a player
You can get the SongHandle with a song id that the player is listening to using:
```java
Optional<SongHandle> handle = api.getPlayingSong(player, id);
```

Please note that a player can only listen to one instance of a song identified by a certain id at once.

### Getting all song handles by id
In case multiple SongHandles were created for the same song id, you can get all using:
```java
Set<SongHandle> handles = api.getPlayingSongs(id);
```

### Getting all song handle instances
You can get all SongHandles currently playing using:
```java
Set<SongHandle> handles = api.getPlayingSongs();
```
